During the five months of the implementation of the project "Meeting the Basic Sexual and Reproductive Needs of the Population Affected by the Socio-Political Crisis in Kumbo", the operational context has evolved but remained highly volatile, with clear trends of insecurity affecting humanitarian access and service delivery. September was marked by prolonged "back-to-school" lockdowns imposed by non-state armed groups, severely disrupting education, displacement and access to health services. 
This was followed in late September and October by widespread lockdowns related to presidential and regional elections, characterized by roadblocks, threats, kidnappings, killings, and increased violence that limited community outreach and forced intermittent suspension of activities. In November, although election-related lockdowns eased, post-election tensions escalated, with an increase in targeted attacks, kidnappings, and intimidation as parties expressed dissatisfaction with the election results. In December, insecurity worsened further due to the holiday season, a period associated with an increase in armed kidnappings for ransom, as armed groups sought financial resources. Notably, three staff members of the Kumbo East health district were kidnapped and released only after a ransom was paid. 
This period has also seen sporadic lockdowns, reduced displacement caused by fear, and restricted access to health facilities, further compounding the vulnerability of women and adolescents. Overall, these evolving trends reflect a shift from politically motivated lockdowns to sustained criminal and economic violence, reinforcing the need for adaptive and conflict-sensitive humanitarian programming. More than 1.1 million people are now internally displaced, with more than 334,000 in the North-West and South-West regions alone. It should be noted that with the escalation of the crisis due to factors such as elections, these statistics may have increased. In East Kumbo, the area targeted by this intervention, the crisis has particularly increased the vulnerability of women and girls, who face increased risks of sexual violence, unintended pregnancies, and limited access to maternal and reproductive health care. With a population of approximately 150,817, the project aimed to reach 11,500 people, including 2,760 women of childbearing age and 2,645 adolescents. The situation described above must have increased the alarming prevalence of teenage pregnancies by 60.75 per cent identified at the beginning of this project in a study conducted by a health district.
